---
layout: post
title:  "[GSoC 2016] Introduction"
summary: "How I ended up working on a Google Summer of Code project at Google"
author: sasanikolic
date: '2016-05-24 10:30:00 +0200'
category: gsoc-2016
thumbnail: /assets/img/google-summer-of-code.png
keywords: drupalplanet, gsoc, drupal, ckeditor plugins, translation
usemathjax: true
permalink: /blog/gsoc-introduction/
---

## Drupal intro

"Drupal™ - Build something amazing". These are the initial words that are written on the [landing page](https://www.drupal.org) of Drupal, one of the leading open source content management systems currently available.

My personal contribution to Drupal 8 started in February, 2015. I did my internship in MD Systems in Zurich - Switzerland for one year and contributed to Drupal core and many other modules, I learnt a lot about 
Drupal in general, the community and the coding process. In the meantime many new ideas arised on how to make things better in the future, especially for many popular custom modules for Drupal 8, like Paragraphs and Translation Management. 
Together with [Miro Dietiker](https://www.drupal.org/u/miro_dietiker), the CEO of MD Systems, we discussed a lot about the opportunities and agreed on what projects would be suitable for me.
We decided to apply for Google Summer of Code, an initiative by Google to support 178 organizations by including students to write code and learn about the open source development. 
I really believe it is a great opportunity to spend the summer break between exams contributing to build something cool for the community and the end users. I would love to extend my project in the future and write a master thesis about it. 
Last, but not least, I find the idea to try and work remotely really intriguing, since I've always wanted to combine travelling and coding - two of my passions. Participants can gain a lot on their personal side too, since to finish the project 
successfully, you need to learn how to be organized, disciplined and stay motivated.

I feel really inspired by the initial words in the quote, that I am eagerly looking forward to start working on my project to build something really amazing!

### GSoC topic

To apply for Google Summer of Code, every student had to write a proposal about the project they are building. Mine is based on the Translation Management module.
This is a short abstract:

> The Translation Management Tool (TMGMT) module is an extension to support editors, publishers, translators and 
project managers during their process of content translation. Since I think that Local Translator is a very 
useful submodule, there are still lots of things missing. The tool was working in Drupal 7, but it was rather 
limited in functionality and by far not fulfilling expectations of professional translators. I believe the next 
goal is to make the Local Translator a professional CAT Tool and I would like to help with implementing CKEditor 
plugins using Javascript. Because TMGMT wants to use the CKEditor libraries to build an alternative non-WYSIWYG 
translation editor, I would propose to implement some special linguistic actions like defining segments, marking 
them in the UI and masking specific HTML tags.

### GSoC Proposal
You can read the whole GSoC proposal [at this url](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s2vqifV6rDJHXMCYKAqz7Xgd7ZEHx7zTWHVkAuwRGsg/edit?usp=sharing).
